== weather: sunny ==

=== 专门的commenter delimter工具 NerdCommenter for vim ===
https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdcommenter

•  [count]<leader>cc                    | NERDComComment|Comment out the current line or text selected in visual mode.
•  [count]<leader>cn                    | NERDComNestedComment|Same as cc but forces nesting.
•  [count]<leader>c<space>              | NERDComToggleComment|Toggles the comment state of the selected line(s). If the topmost selected line is commented, all selected lines are uncommented and vice versa.
•  [count]<leader>cm                    | NERDComMinimalComment|Comments the given lines using only one set of multipart delimiters.
•  [count]<leader>ci                    | NERDComInvertComment|Toggles the comment state of the selected line(s) individually.
•  [count]<leader>cs                    | NERDComSexyComment|Comments out the selected lines with a pretty block formatted layout.
•  [count]<leader>cy                    | NERDComYankComment|Same as cc except that the commented line(s) are yanked first.
•  <leader>c$                           | NERDComEOLComment|Comments the current line from the cursor to the end of line.
•  <leader>cA                           | NERDComAppendComment|Adds comment delimiters to the end of line and goes into insert mode between them.
•                                       | NERDComInsertComment|Adds comment delimiters at the current cursor position and inserts between. Disabled by default.
•  <leader>ca                           | NERDComAltDelim|Switches to the alternative set of delimiters.
•  [count]<leader>cl[count]<leader>cb | NERDComAlignedComment|Same as |NERDComComment| except that the delimiters are aligned down the left side (<leader>cl) or both sides (<leader>cb).
•  [count]<leader>cu                    | NERDComUncommentLine|Uncomments the selected line(s).

专门的对齐工具vim-easy-align:https://github.com/junegunn/vim-easy-align

predefined delimiters
<Space>, =, :, ., |, &, #, and ,.
1. <Space>
2. =
3. :
4. .
5. |
6. &
7. #
8. ,

without pair symbol,such as (), [], {}, 区分它们，也没有*,因为*在这里表示多个的意思，类似与正则表达式


vipga:
    1. v选择模式
    2. ip内部快
    3. ga启动对齐
    4. 
gaip: 
    1. ga
    2. inner
    3. paragraph
    一个段落内进行对齐
