
== E:\clojure-home>lein help  new ==
Generate scaffolding for a new project based on a template.

If only one argument is passed to the "new" task, the default template
is used and the argument is used as the name of the project.

If two arguments are passed, the first should be the name of a template,
and the second is used as the name of the project, for example:

    lein new $TEMPLATE_NAME $PROJECT_NAME

To generate to a directory different than your project's name use --to-dir:

    lein new $TEMPLATE_NAME $PROJECT_NAME --to-dir $DIR

By default, the "new" task will not write to an existing directory.
Supply the --force option to override this behavior:

    lein new $TEMPLATE_NAME $PROJECT_NAME --force
    lein new $TEMPLATE_NAME $PROJECT_NAME --to-dir $DIR --force

Arguments can be passed to templates by adding them after "new"'s options. Use
`--` to separate arguments to lein new and the actual template you are using:

    lein new $TEMPLATE_NAME $PROJECT_NAME --to-dir $DIR -- template-arg-1 template-arg-2

If you'd like to use an unreleased (ie, SNAPSHOT) template, pass in --snapshot:

    lein new $TEMPLATE_NAME $PROJECT_NAME --snapshot

If you'd rather like to use a specific version of template, specify the version
with --template-version option:

    lein new $TEMPLATE_NAME $PROJECT_NAME --template-version $TEMPLATE_VERSION

If you use the `--snapshot` or `--template-version` argument with template args
you may need to use `--` to prevent template args from being interpreted as
arguments to `lein new`:

    lein new $TEMPLATE_NAME $PROJECT_NAME --snapshot -- template-arg-1 template-arg-2

Third-party templates can be found at https://clojars.org/search?q=lein-template.
When creating a new project from a third-party template, use its group-id
as the template name. Note that there's no need to "install" a given third-
party template --- lein will automatically fetch it for you.

Use `lein new :show $TEMPLATE` to see details about a given template.

To create a new template of your own, see the documentation for the
lein-new Leiningen plug-in.

Subtasks available:
default    A general project template for libraries.
plugin     A leiningen plugin project template.
app        An application project template.
template   A meta-template for 'lein new' templates.

Run `lein help new $SUBTASK` for subtask details.

