

am using org-mode to write notes and org-agenda to organize all notes, especially to search some info. by keyword or tag.

C-c a m can search some files by tag inputed, C-c a s by keyword ,those functions from org-agenda are well to utilize, however, I need to add org-file into the agenda-list by hand.

I added some codes into .emacs, such as

(setq org-agenda-files (list "path/folder/*.org"))

or

(setq org-agenda-files (file-expand-wildcards "path/folder/*.org"))

but, both failed to add files under the folder specified into agenda-list automatically, so I can't search keyword or tag among those org-files, unless that I open a org-file and type C-c [ to add it into agenda-list.

How can I make all org-files under a folder automatically added in agenda?
emacs org-mode
shareimprove this question
	
asked Jul 8 '12 at 15:55
Zoe Rowa
4491517
	
   	 
	
It looks like you're doing the right thing -- is this just a relative path issue? Can you try doing the same thing with the full path? Alternately, are you running a server and not re-evaluating the appropriate commands? – Craig Citro Jul 8 '12 at 16:33
   	 
	
I have tried that with both full path and relative path. now ,I know the cause resulting in this problem, owing to I want more than one folder to included the agenda-file. I made two case =setq org-agenda-file (...)= , giving rise to the function ineffective. Very thank your words. – Zoe Rowa Jul 9 '12 at 3:33
add a comment
2 Answers
active
oldest
votes
up vote
43
down vote
accepted
	

Just naming the directory should be enough. For example this works for me very well:

(setq org-agenda-files '("~/org"))

Also take a look at org-agenda-text-search-extra-files; it lets you add extra files included only in text searches. A typical value might be,

(setq org-agenda-text-search-extra-files
      '(agenda-archives
        "~/org/subdir/textfile1.txt"
        "~/org/subdir/textfile1.txt"))

Edit: To include all files with a certain extension in the extra files list you can try the function sa-find-org-file-recursively I wrote sometime back. You can use it like this:

(setq org-agenda-text-search-extra-files
      (append (sa-find-org-file-recursively "~/org/dir1/" "txt")
              (sa-find-org-file-recursively "~/org/dir2/" "tex")))

Caveat: If you add a file to the directory after you have started Emacs, it will not be included.

