= Express with "no not form" =
All three examples show the weakness inherent in the word not. 
Consciously or unconsciously, the reader is dissatisfied with being told only what is not; 
he wishes to be told what is. 
Hence, as a rule, it is better to express even a negative in positive form.


= prefer 3 =
Prefer the specific to the general, the definite to the vague, the concrete to the abstract.


= Transfer word to thoughts =

This superiority of specific expressions is clearly due to the effort required to translate words into thoughts


Case: instance of  a thing's occurring ; usual state of affairs

It has rarely been the case that any mistake has been made(Few mistakes have been made)
In many cases, the rooms were poorly ventilated( Many of the rooms were poorly ventilated)


= clever =
Clever. This word has been greatly overused; it is best restricted to“ ingenuity(独创性) “displayed in small matters.


= Compare: the resemblances and the differences =
Compare with和compare to两者的用法不同之处：

+ To compare to指出相似性
+ TO compare with指出不同点
Compare. To compare to is to point out or imply resemblances, between objects regarded as essentially of different order;
to compare with is mainly to point out differences, between objects regarded as essentially of the same order.
Thus life has been compared to a pilgrimage, to a drama, to a battle; Congress may be compared with the British Parliament.
Paris has been compared to ancient Athens;
it may be compared with modern London.


He is a man who is very ambitious(He is very ambitious)
Spain is a country which I have always wanted to visite(I have always wanted to visit Spain)


= kind of =
Kind of. Not to be used as a substitute for rather (before adjectives and verbs), or except in familiar style, for something like (before nouns). Restrict it to its literal sense: “Amber is a kind of fossil resin;” “I dislike that kind of notoriety.” The same holds true of sort of.


Present participles(现在分词) (Do you mind me asking a question?)
verbal nouns or  gerunds ( Do you mind my asking a question?)


= possessive =

I cannot imagine Lincoln's refusing his assent to this measure(By using the possessive, the writer will always be on the safe side)


Phase. Means a stage of transition or development: “the phases of the moon;” “the last phase.” Not to be used for aspect or topic.
Another phase of the subject 	Another point (another question)


(拥有)
Possess. Not to be used as a mere substitute for have or own.
He possessed great courage. 	He had great courage (was very brave).
He was the fortunate possessor of 	He owned

State. Not to be used as a mere substitute for say, remark. Restrict it to the sense of express fully or clearly, as, “He refused to state his objections.”（完全而又清晰地表达）


We are instituting many meaningful changes in the curriculum(We are improving the curriculum in many ways)
The meating was chaired by ..(.. was the chair of the meating)


= Style is increment in writing. =
When we speak of Fitzgerald's style, we don't mean his command of the relative pronoun ,we mean the sound his words make on paper.
All writers, by the way they use the language, reveal something of their spirits, their habits, their capacities, and their biases.

This is inevitable as well as enjoyable. All writing is communication; creative writing is communication through revelation(揭示) -- it is
the self escaping into the open. No writer long remains incognito(化装的，隐匿身份的)


== Put yourself in the backgruond ==
If the writing is solid and good, the mood and temper of the writer will eventually be revealed and not at the expense of the work.
Therefore, the first piece of advice is this: to achieve style , begin by affecting noe-- that is, place yourself in 
the background. A careful and honest writer does not need to worry about style. As you become proficient in the use of language,
your style will emerge, because you yourself will emerge, and when this happens you will find it increasingly easy to 
break through the barries that separate you from other minds, other hearts--which is, of course ,the purpose of writing,
as well as principal reward. Fortuately, the act of composition, or creation, disciplines the mind; writing is one way
to go about thinking, and the practice the habit of writing not only drain the mind but supply it, too.


The use of language begins with imitation(模仿).

= Writing is slow process =

Writing is, for most, laborious and slow. 
The mind travels faster than the pen; Consequently, writing becaomes a question of learning to 
make occasional wing shots, bringing down the bird of thought as it flashes by. A writer is a gnuner,
    sometimes  waiting in the blind for something roaming the countryside hoping to scare something up(设法得到某些东西)
    Like other gnuners, the writer must cultivate patience, working many covers to bring down one partridge.
Here, following ,are some suggestions and cautionary hints that may help the beginner find the way to 
a satifactory style.

1. Place yourself in the background
2. Write in a way that comes naturally
3. Work from a suitable design
4. write with nouns and verbs
5. Revise and rewrite
6. Do not overwrite
7. Do not overstate
8. Avoid the use of qualifiers
9. Do not affect a breezy manner
10. Use orthodox spelling
11. Do not explain too much
12. Do not construct awkward adverbs
13. Make sure the reader knows who is speaking(The best test for locating an attributive is to speak the sentences aloud)
14. Avoid fancy words
15. Do not use dialect unless your ear is good.
16. Be clear(Clarity can only be a virtue)
17. Do not inject opinion
18. Use figures of speech sparingly
